= Introduction

This is a simple gem for Ruby that simplifies validating email addresses. It conforms with RFC2822.

Here comes a quick code sample. Currently no docs.

  require 'rfc822'

  # To test if whole string is an email... ugly way 
  #  (returns 0 on success, nil on failure):

  "tom@example.com".dup.force_encoding("BINARY") =~ RFC822::EMAIL_REGEXP_WHOLE

  # or nice one (returns true/false):

  "tom@example.com".is_email?


  
  # To test if string contains an email... ugly way 
  #   (returns 0 on success, nil on failure):
  
  "demo john@example.comFooBar".dup.force_encoding("BINARY") =~ RFC822::EMAIL_REGEXP_PART

  # or nice one (returns true/false):

  "demo john@example.comFooBar".contains_email?



  # To scan for emails within a string... ugly way 
  #   (returns an array):
  
  "something a@example.com xyz".dup.force_encoding("BINARY").scan(RFC822::EMAIL_REGEXP_PART)

  # or nice one (also returns an array):

  "something a@example.com xyz".scan_for_emails

If you omit `.dup.force_encoding("BINARY")` part, you can run into exceptions if someone passes non-ASCII email (see https://github.com/mspanc/rfc822/issues/3).

  
= Installation

=== Ruby Versions

Code was tested with ruby-1.8.7-p334 [ i386 ] and ruby-1.9.2-p180 [ i386 ] under RVM.

=== Gems

The gems are hosted at Rubygems.org[http://rubygems.org]. Make sure you're
using the latest version of rubygems:

  $ gem update --system

Then you can install the gem as follows:

  $ gem install rfc822

=== Bundler

Add to your Gemfile:

  gem "rfc822"

and then type:

  bundle install

=== From the GitHub source

The source code is available at http://github.com/saepia/rfc822.
You can either clone the git repository or download a tarball or zip file.
Once you have the source, you can unpack it and use from wherever you downloaded.

= ChangeLog
=== 0.1.5

* Fixed bug that caused to change encoding of string passed to the methods (thanks to Artur Trzop)

=== 0.1.4

* Fixed regression introduced in 0.1.3 that caused EMAIL_REGEXP_WHOLE to stop working properly.

=== 0.1.3 (yanked)

* [security] Updated regular expressions to use \A and \z instead of ^ and $ operators.

=== 0.1.2

* Updated license

=== 0.1.1

* Fixed description in the gem description

=== 0.1.0

* Added compatibility with Ruby 1.9
* Added String#is_email?, String#contains_email? and String#scan_for_emails methods

=== 0.0.2

* Initial release

= License

MIT
